(copied from various sources, mostly reddit, mmominds, and nwo-uncensored, tweaked by me)

cragmire crypts master
---
basically same as normal, but harder

malabog castle
---
initally chase through, kill catapaults, kill adds etc
final boss
- does an attack where area is red striped. best area to hang around is near the entrance.
- look out for valindra's black circles at same time
- valindra will intervene occasionally. attack asap.
- if she grabs someone, she will drain them until she's 'killed'. heal them and attack her quickly.

castle never
---
room with rifts - each dps/tank takes a rift, kills whats in it, and gets auto-transported to help others.
clear all the rifts. Healer may as well chill.
beholder - avoid contact with partner when chained together by green beam.
large death globe encounter - stop undead reaching the centre.
illithid - floor will collapse onto spikes seen in cutscene. note the areas and avoid when it happens
for dark section with zombies on floor, stick to jumping on along furniture to not activate them.
orcus - again chains and deadly globes

temple spider master
---
final boss -
- red beam hurts, block with boss or dodge. The player that’s being targeted has to run away from the group
and dodge or another player has to dodge/block/intercept the beam for the target.
- blue beam heals boss, block it. Whomever blocks it will need cleanse from healer.
- kill all the adds asap
(with 2020 endgame player levels, its easy - ignore mechanics and just kill boss.)

gray wolf den master
---
final boss will swap from human (killable) to werewolf (invunerable).
Kill small red wolf _next_ to her to make her human. Dont kill it far away from boss.

lair of lostmauth
---
lostmauth - 
- dont stand directly behind the dragon, attack from sides.
- huddle in centre at 50%, area floods lava. move around in central pentagon to avoid small falling rocks.

to9g
----
initially in open area, choose passage with big face on wall

1st puzzle: pattern on floor in room centre, find matching one on coffins on each side
stick together as mobs can hit hard.
pre-orcus: clear room then 3 items to symbols to click on.
		left triangle gives temporary hit points -> tank,
		middle cross gives damage vs undead -> aoe dps
		right orcus gives single target damage-> top dps
orcus -
 - avoid the balls, which are instakill. Boosted tank must block them.
downstairs to puzzle
dino pit, then downstairs, then puzzle.
2nd boss weather control station. no fancy mechanics, try to stay out of electrified water.
some ads,
room before boss with tomb dwarfs: make sure companions are non-aggressive.

ras nsi -
- He will charge his soulmonger, if it gets full its a wipe.
- Specific cirular attack to call souls, to charge soulmonger. take out souls asap.
- if ghost appears, need to be far side of platform to not get pushed off.
- 'I will strike you dead' - get to centre, drop heals.

3 possible puzzle rooms:
- 3 mimics, basically the shell game, follow light between 3 chests, choose wisely at end.
- interact with 6 objects in order, using log screen to see if right/wrong. Usually easier to fail deliberately.
- drink potions, others tell you what colour, you go to correct pedastal


fangbreaker island
---
clear adds up path to scale island. 2 avalanches to avoid, step back if you get a rumble starting.
Manticore - 
- hide on small rock ledge to avoid avalanche at start, and again when it leaps up and dissappears
On ice, hit/knock explosive runes before they fire
Turtle - 
- To avoid steam cannon, hit him with explosive rune when he rears up from water. aim the runes, dont shoot randomly.
Drufi - 
- slow damage at start, give her time to create permafrost pillars, you need them later.
- dodge the permafrost pillars forming, leave any empty ones to hide behind later
- 'Call of Winter', Drufi will run to the center of the arena along the waterfront, here she will begin
channeling rune magic. hide behind permafrost pillars
- 'hypothermia', person targeted because there is a huge 4-arrow. group hug them and share damage.


spellplague caverns master
----
3 bosses:
kabal -
- chains 2 players: get chain in a ball to melt it. If linked to a ball, pull it into kabal, makes him vunerable.
- 3 cycles of killing him.
nothic - 
- The boss will spawn a pulsating AoE, jump to the area and initiate a massive push. Players have to position
themselves at the edge of the red AoE warn area that has the most distance to the end of the platform. use dodge.
- avoid gaze, use mirrors to reflect gaze.
nostura - 
- if you do too much damage too quickly, she will activate portal and nuke everyone. take it slow!
- laser beam yellow portals appear around the edge. move to position (next to them) to avoid. Can't destroy them.
- 'be still' pre-gaze attack. Turn away until shockwave passes or get stunned.
- if you get cursed (black skull overhead), try to get stunned to clear it. Also avoid standing next to someone.
- if her health bar turns green, you are on the wrong plane. go through portal.
- 'grows weary of this'. kill tentacles, kill planar tears, go through portal, kill planar tears. Can send a dps ahead.
convention: kill the portals, the crystals, the coils clockwise just because, 
- Under 25% she spawns five Planar Tears and five Portals. The group has to DPS down the tears and every
player needs to enter a portal to prevent getting one-shotted by the ensuing nuke.


valindra's tower
---
valindra -
start by using at will/enc, save dailies, until stuff starts at 75%
- she says 'come forth my minons'. coffins appear, you need to destroy them quick. Can interact with them, not
necessary to do damage. If any wights hatch from them, use daily to finish them off. if any are left you will 
get swamped eventually.
- she will say 'you will die'. Get to edge of area, and dodge round avoiding red sectors.
- repeat wights and red sectors,
- when she's below 20% or so, best seems to ignore wights and just kill her as quick as poss.


castle ravenloft (incomplete)
---
sisters - 
- 1 dps keep 1-2 sisters busy with tome,
- Make sure to stand behind the boss if you are not the tank, in order to avoid building up stacks of vitae debuff.
- When the boss states “Attack me if you dare fools” stop attacking to prevent dying from reflect.
The chains occur one minute apart, and come with a sequence: The sister will kick everyone away, drain everyone’s Action Points,
and then do the chains voice telegraph and attack. 
- Whenever a sister is killed, they enter a phase where the remaining sisters are “gathering their fallen sister’s 
power.” at centre of room where first spawn. If you fail to kill the fallen sister fast enough, it's a party wipe. 
convention: start with the red shade.

tome: (this may have changed)
    Right At-Will – Disabling Phrase: A brief stun with quick cooldown.
    Left At-Will – Shocking Reveal: This is the main tool to pull a sister to you. Notice that this is a channeled mechanic,
meaning you need to hold the at-will (default on PC left mouse button) to keep the sister aggro’d.  Move the sister to where
you want her.
    Encounter – Deception’s Rebuke: Clears negative effects from players in small area around the tome user.
    Daily – Stunning Revelation: A longer, cone area stun that affects the sisters.

arcolith -
- dps attack from rear, but not completely behind. 
- When the boss starts spinning, it cannot be damaged until it crashes into one of the four pillars in the room,
but once you run out of pillars, you automatically fail the fight. when it hits pillar, its debuffed so hit it hard then.
- dont allow the Arcolith to touch the pillars with his sword except when he is spinning.

Strahd - 
A dps has to take the sword. But before going in, everyone can use the sword to get a buff.
Stick together! stay at side, not in centre. damage debuff like paladin sigil useful.
During each phase, survive damage, kill 4 monsters around the arena, get the sword back, hit the boss.
If you are 4 arrows marked move away from the party or you will kill everyone. Go to candles around edge to survive.
Red flames indicate where big aoes will strike. They hurt a lot. 

kidnap phase - one down below, stay alive. There are ghouls. Do not hurt them, run away. Hide behind a pillar, 
then another. rest of players above, kill doppelgangers. 
Taunts one player saying “Come then”, that player shouldn't hit him.
Rondo of the Night: At 25% HP. everyone has to go to the center of the room, you then need to use the daily power of 
the Sunsword, Sundrenched Aegis (button X). Wait until “Now, raise me to the heavens” before casting, to make sure
length of the bubble is long enough, it’s recommended to activate it about two seconds after the voice prompt. 


LOMM
---
Arcturia - 
- agree on corners before starting. Usually Tank+Heal go to the green corner. Strongest DPS goes to yellow. Place the
other DPS at blue/purple.
    Butterfly cloud keeps you from using powers; stay out of it.
    Thorns hit 3 times, tank should block at least 2 of them.
    At 80% mimic spawns in corners. After the Tank/Heal kill their 1st mimic, they should go help the blue/purple
DPS kill their mimics. If the yellow DPS is ranged they can help blue/purple in the delay they have from
killing their first till their second spawns. If one of the DPS just can't kill a mimic, have then run with
the tank/heal instead. Once 6 mimics are dead the phase ends. 
    Mimic phase repeats every 60 seconds after the first, plus at 50%.
    After each mimic phase a non-healer will be pulled to her feet and cocooned (helpless, dropped to
20% health). The healer has about 5 seconds to get them healed to full. Then the cocoon explodes; if the victim
was not 100% they are permadead, as well as anyone caught in the blast.
    Any golems that spawned during mimic phase should be tanked to keep them off the healer and ignored by the DPS.
    After the 50% mimic phase she will scream, signalling the end of the mimic phases (unless she bugs out).
    After 50% she will use a few abilities--screams cause random warriors to AOE the floor, avoid it.
Eyeball will do a long stun to anyone facing her- face away until shockwave. She will still cocoon people sometimes,
heal/avoid normally. An AOE arrow will land on someone, group up to share the damage.

Bore Worm -
    For the first 10% or so, just kill the worm. The worm attacks random targets regardless of aggro.
    When the worm spins you can block/dodge it. If you stand too far away the worm will knock you towards it.
    At around 90% the worm will sink into the ground and cause shifting sands. If you get pulled into the
center you will perma-die.
    Boulders will spawn near each player. single hit to destroy, so use fast/dash at-wills to kill them. Every
boulder that reaches the center makes the coming charge phase last longer.
    After the sands stop everyone must gather at the stairs and cluster around the player with arrows on them
to share the AOE hit. Just stand still while the healer keeps you alive, don't try to avoid the red AOE that
knocks you down, stay clustered.
    you can also run this with tank alone taking all the aggro, if healer is strong enough.
    The healer usually stands outside the red AOE and heals the group, unless they get arrows on themselves.
If someone does die, the only way to rez them is for one person without arrows to rez them while the person
with the arrows moves away with the other two players, otherwise the knockdown will interrupt you.
    When the worm sinks back into the ground, the charge phase is over, and you can resume killing the worm.
Around 40% health the worm will sink down and start another shifting sands.
    Kill boulders without getting pulled into the center again. The tank should try to aggro as many golems
as they can now. After the sands stop shifting it's time to gather at the stairs again.
    The tank should try to keep the golems aggro, and wedge themselves into the corner of the stairs so you
don't get knocked around like crazy. Otherwise stay clustered up and get healed normally.
    After the worm sinks again the phase is over--resume killing the worm--do not kill the golems. When the
worm twirls it will kill any golems nearby, making the worm take more damage. More importantly, if the worm
twirls twice without killing a golem, you will get a new boulder phase with more golems. (Note if your damage
is good enough, you can kill the golems and kill the worm before it triggers another boulder phase.)

Trobriand -
    There are three rings around the area. As Trobriand is injured, the rings start electrifying. If a scaladar
is standing on a ring when it's electrified it wakes up supercharged, and much more dangerous. So don't attack 
Trobriand while Scaladar are spawned.
    During the first phase the tank should block the left-right swipes from Trobriand, and focus on getting
stamina back, while pointing Trobriand at one or more Scaladars. When he does his cone AOE (which everyone
must avoid, even the tank), it will wake up any Scaladar it hits. The DPS kill them while the tank keeps
fighting/blocking/positioning Trobriand. While tanking Trobriand watch carefully for him to do a palm blast--
you must block it, as it can one-shot a tank when unblocked. If Trobriand just stands still doing nothing for 
a long period of time (5-6 seconds) he might be doing a palm blast with no animation (occasional bug), so block.
    After the first set of Scaladar are dead, go full damage mode (use artifacts now) on Trobriand. Around 60% 
the rings will be fully electrified, and then reset to off, spawning 4 more Scaladar. Stop damage on Trobriand.
    At this point the tank will awaken the next 4 Scaladar (at whatever pace you are comfortable with) and the 
DPS will kill them. After they are all dead, back to full damage on Trobriand.
Around 30% Trobriand will move to the center of the room and start to gain a charge from the tesla coils.
    The party must kill the coils as quickly as possible; the longer you take, the larger the blast will be that 
you must survive. When the last tower dies, everyone stands with the healer, and everyone activates anything that 
helps them survive damage. If you die to the blast you can't be rezzed. Survivors finish killing Trobriand, while 
the tank focuses on blocking Palm Blast (which Trobriand will use more often).
    Throughout the fight you will get polarity symbols of + or - over your head linked to someone else. If you 
have the same symbol, you must stand near each other. If you have opposite symbols you much stand far apart. When
Trobriand claps his hands you will be either repelled  apart (same) or pulled together (opposite). If you collide, 
you get bad debuff/damage, needs to be cleansed by the healer.


TIC (incomplete, still in draft form)
---
3 demons will give you their powers to "help" you. You must choose which will help you.
- Ozgannon (left) gives a power that interrupts and hold enemies.
- Zaxumander (middle) gives a power that deals damage and helps with poison
- Urzuuroch (right) gives a power that helps breaking the chains (2 are almost enough to break one chain)

everyone shoyuld take same power. usually Urzuuroch preferred

then choose a path. take the one that stops portals, as it reducxes add during boss fight

1st Boss Morzach -
Never stay in front of the boss : it can charge and all of its attacks will cleave and deal damage to everyone it faces.
When the boss launches into the air, he flies and throw spikes you can dash below his belly, right into his circle, to avoid the hit.
DPS must destroy the spores when they spawn so that there's not poison everywhere.

2nd boss Zaphael -
Tank should circle around the arena while others stay in the middle or at least not too far away so that healing them is easier.
The boss must not face anyone but the tank or people will die. The tank must always be visible from the boss or the boss will
target someone else.

The main thing is to stay very close together so that you can easily escape the big aoes and they are not all over the place.

healer tip - One interesting thing to note, which is actually a key to making this fight way easier, is that if the
boss cannot see you, you will not be targeted by any aoe. This means, as a healer, you can easily hide constantly 
behind a pillar while healing the tank with aoes (it requires some precision but it’s not that hard). Healing the
tank will be a bit harder, but not being targeted by anything is nice. Doing this is not always a good idea. It really
depends on the group.

phase 1, there will be big red AOEs on the ground that will spawn under everyone's feet. These are deadly, will one-shot you.
At 75/50/25/7%, the boss will teleport to the middle and 2 imps will grab players. Players should be saved from the imps and
hide behind pillars. The boss will explode and you won't survive.

phase 2, after 75%, small small aoe following you, like bel. Count to 3, move to avoid the damage.
if the boss cannot see you, you will not be targeted by any aoe : as a healer, you can  hide  behind a pillar while healing the tank with aoes. 
healer: Divine Glow is very recommanded to sustain your divinity.

Signals:
Big red signal means just deal a lot of damage but it will disappear.
Little red and following signal means deal damage and create fire are wher it falls. ( important tactic: try roll/dash/dodge to
big fire areas between columns when little red signal follow you. If you do this you will have more space to fight).

on 2nd boss move small red circles near wall and leave them there, if you leave them middle, good chance someone will die because of you. 

3rd boss Hellfire Engine -
3rd boss, watch your feet for red circles, most groups leave them starting from top left. 

wall where you enter need to be clear from lava for dps check. 

aim the boss at that door when he's near last 10%. 



avoid the attacks, and do not break the ground too fast. If you loose team members early, its a wipe. Healer should
have divine glow active.

During the whole fight, everyone will be targeted by small aoes like bel. As soon as the aoe is ready to land (it will
be darker red and you will hear a sound), move or you will die. These aoes break the tiles on which they land, so always
convention: put circles in TIC top left.
make sure to make the aoe hit a single tile to avoid destroying arena. *If you move on a destroyed tile, you will die.*
A tile can sustain 1 hit before breaking. If the whole group is targeted, everyone should regroup on a single tile 

(preferably one in a corner, which is already damaged). If a single person is targeted, they should move on an undamaged tile, 
preferably in a corner, so that the arena does not become smaller. The goal is to kill the boss before the arena is destroyed.

Big tip: If all group stay on same tile and pull fireballs to same tile that would be better, because 5 fireballs hitting 
ground but only one tile is destroyed.

bug/Tip 3rd boss - many times when the single circle is spawning, if it's on the healer/tank, even if they move on a clean tile 
in the end the circle is appearing on one/two random dps. Move all to a clean tile to avoid having these "surprise" circles
in the middle.

attacks (they are cyclical) :
    charge : the boss will charge a dps from time to time. Just don't be on the way.
    tiles on fire : from time to time, a single tile will become red and it will burst fire. big damage.
    successive rows or columns on fire : the whole arena will burst fire row after row or column after column.
    laser : don't stay in front of the boss. 
    lasers : Sometimes boss stop moving and turning around with flame thrower first. And do it after again and again 
but these times its have laser right and left side at engine. Try to dodge it.
    chain : The tank will be chained and damaged hard for about 3-5s (about once every minute). Active heal (BoH or 
Intercession), otherwise tank will die. The boss will roar for 3 seconds before the chain lands, protect your tank 
with artefacts (like the Sigil of the Paladin) and mount powers (like the Armored Griffon). 
    adds : at the end of the fight, there will be small monsters that will spawn. they can bump you into destroyed
tiles, which would kill you.




Trials
====
codg
---
elevator, when linked, move skull towards apparition. when over half way kill it from behind to push over edge
when linked, move gel cube towards corner, then kill to clog cogs. no AOE in centre to kill them accidentally.

cut atropal cords in order, clockwise as team. make sure all revived before last cut.
when atropal drops down, go to outer edge to resist pull/push. 2 sec pull, then push. stand sideways to see whats going on
dodge the red!
when aracek spawns, kill him asap inside time limit, or wipe. Then hide in golden globe, then kill atropal.

edemo
---
purple gates only to get gold/fastest, rest is easy
aim gosistro charge into gold gates to damage, or into close wall so he stays nearby. Not into black gates, they heal him!

swardborg
---
always prioritise permafrost to release teammates!
if you get single red arrow, move away from everyone, or you will knock them all down with rocks.
if you get 4 red arrows, group hug to share hypothermia damage.
phases - 
army: stay generally in centre for heals and watch for permafrost.
after army: quickly get to pillars beside throne to shelter from blizzard.
storvald/manticiores:
focus on 1 manticore together. 2nd tank can occupy other manticore. healers should include cleanse for poisons.

TOMM
---
tbd! my level too low!

Zariel
---
ditto!

Vault of stars
---
always kill flower corpses
1st boss:
If you get small circle with 2 arrows, move away to edge of area
sometime boss will go to side, do one of two things:
a) green line to corpse flower, anyone block it.
b) 'stubborn weed', red track to player. get behind a flower.
sometimes red line to player from moving flower corpse. kill it quick.
50%, displacer beast spawn, stuns player. red line from player to boss, tank must block.
shambling mound walks green line towards flowers, kill before they merge.

dark forest, stay in light

2nd boss:
avoid red. group for hypothermia
large red circle with arrow move away. then get iced alone, and need to be rescued 
large red circle without arrow, spread out to edge

maze area. 3 arenas, kill corpse flowers asap. maze is timed, move quickly.

3rd boss:
golems need to be moved into approprite light or dark areas:
'preserved by darkness' - get him to light
'sheltered by starlight' - get boss to dark zone
4 arrow hypothermia - group up to share damage

